docs: add v1.52.0 release notes (#34613)
backstage/backstage: docs/releases/v1.52.0.md

**New components:** A `NumberField` component has been added for numeric input with support for min, max, step, and keyboard increment/decrement. Contributed by [@jabrks](https://github.com/jabrks) in [#34264](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/pull/34264).

**Breaking changes:**

- `ComboboxProps` is now a union type. Replace interfaces that extend `ComboboxProps` with type intersections:
  ```diff
  - interface MyComboboxProps extends ComboboxProps {
  -   trackingId: string;
  - }
  + type MyComboboxProps = ComboboxProps & {
  +   trackingId: string;
  + };
  ```
- `SelectProps` is now a union type and the popover list content is no longer a direct child of `.bui-SelectPopover`. Apply the same intersection migration as `ComboboxProps`, and update CSS selectors that target list content as a direct child of `.bui-SelectPopover`.

Check the [BUI Changelog](https://ui.backstage.io/changelog) for more details.

### New experimental package: `@backstage/connections`

> A new `@backstage/connections` package has been added as an experimental feature. Do not use this package unless you are experimenting with this new system. A Connection is a piece of configuration that stores an external host and the credentials required to authenticate with it. The goal of Connections to eventually replace the integrations concept, and to support a much wider range of systems. More information is available in [BEP-0014](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/tree/master/beps/0014-connection-service).

Reviewer: There very much is

> A new `@backstage/connections` package has been added as an experimental feature. A connection is a piece of configuration that stores an external host and the credentials required to authenticate with it. A single connection can be consumed by many plugins, reducing the amount of repeated configuration needed. Connections support multiple auth methods which can be restricted to specific plugins or modules. A `title` field provides a human-readable display name for each connection, defaulting to the provider name or including the host when multiple connections share a type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new `@backstage/connections` package has been added as an experimental feature. Do not use this package unless you are experimenting with this new system. A Connection is a piece of configuration that stores an external host and the credentials required to authenticate with it. The goal of Connections to eventually replace the integrations concept, and to support a much wider range of systems. More information is available in [BEP-0014](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/tree/master/beps/0014-connection-service).
```

- Added extended multi-column statistics on `(key, value)` in the `search` table (PostgreSQL only), fixing severe row count estimation errors on compound filter queries that caused 10-40x slower catalog list views.
- Added a migration that tunes PostgreSQL automatic vacuum thresholds on key catalog tables and fixes column statistics for `entity_id` in the `search` table.
- Dropped the legacy `search_entity_id_idx` index which is now redundant and was causing the query planner to choose an inefficient scan pattern for catalog list queries with multiple sort fields.
- Optimized `entitiesBatch` on PostgreSQL to use `= ANY(array)` instead of `WHERE IN ($1, $2, ...)`, producing a single stable query plan regardless of batch size.
- Fixed a race condition in the stitch queue where row locks were released before the subsequent timestamp bump, allowing multiple workers to claim the same rows.

> - Improved stitch queue semantics to prevent overlapping stitches for the same entity.

Reviewer: 🔥

- Optimized `entitiesBatch` on PostgreSQL to use `= ANY(array)` instead of `WHERE IN ($1, $2, ...)`, producing a single stable query plan regardless of batch size.
- Fixed a race condition in the stitch queue where row locks were released before the subsequent timestamp bump, allowing multiple workers to claim the same rows.
- Improved stitch queue semantics to prevent overlapping stitches for the same entity.

### Actions secrets schema support

Actions can now declare a Zod secrets schema separate from the input schema in `@backstage/backend-plugin-api`, enabling surfaces to collect sensitive credentials independently from tool arguments. A new `v2` invoke endpoint (`/.backstage/actions/v2/actions/:id/invoke`) accepts a wrapped body format with secrets validation, while the existing `v1` endpoint remains unchanged. The mock actions registry in `@backstage/backend-test-utils` has been updated to support validating and forwarding secrets.

### Scaffolder field extension template

A new `scaffolder-field-extension-module` template has been added to `backstage-cli new`, making it easier to scaffold custom Scaffolder form field extensions.

> Contributed by [@awanlin](https://github.com/awanlin) in [#34289](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/pull/34289)

Reviewer 2: We can remove this contributed by part, I think we generally skip maintainers for this.

Reviewer: Doesn't look like a maintainer to me :p

## Upgrade path

We recommend that you keep your Backstage project up to date with this latest release. For more guidance on how to upgrade, check out the documentation for [keeping Backstage updated](https://backstage.io/docs/getting-started/keeping-backstage-updated).

## Links and References

Below you can find a list of links and references to help you learn about and start using this new release.

- [Backstage official website](https://backstage.io/), [documentation](https://backstage.io/docs/), and [getting started guide](https://backstage.io/docs/getting-started/)
- [GitHub repository](https://github.com/backstage/backstage)
- Backstage's [versioning and support policy](https://backstage.io/docs/overview/versioning-policy)
- [Community Discord](https://discord.gg/backstage-687207715902193673) for discussions and support

> - [Changelog](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/tree/master/docs/releases/v1.52.0-changelog.md)

Author: fixing in https://github.com/backstage/backstage/pull/34614
